Inauguration Day Holiday If you work in the Washington, DC, metropolitan area, you will have 1 additional holiday, Inauguration Day. This holiday falls on January 20th of every 4th year. If you are working in Washington on this day (even if you normally are assigned elsewhere), it will be a holiday. If you are on travel elsewhere, it will not. If Inauguration Day falls on a Sunday, the next day chosen for observance of Inauguration Day is the holiday. If Inauguration Day falls on a Saturday, Federal employees in the DC area who do not work on Saturday will not receive an Inauguration Day holiday. Determining Your Holiday Day Off Normally, if you’re scheduled to work on a Federal holiday, you’ll have that day off and you’ll be paid normally, whether you’re a full-time or part-time employee. If you work on an intermittent schedule (daily, hourly, piece-work, etc.), you don’t receive paid holidays or replacement holidays for days off, and if you work on a holiday, you don’t receive premium pay. Replacement or In-Lieu-Of Holidays Some employees can’t observe the holiday on the day designated as the holiday because of their work schedule. These employees get a “replacement or in-lieu-of holiday.” Replacement holidays are usually referred to as “in-lieu-of” holidays. If you work on a flexible or compressed work schedule and your holiday falls on a non-workday, then you get a replacement holiday on your scheduled workday immediately before the holiday. But, if the actual holiday falls on a Sunday non-workday, then you get your replacement holiday on your next scheduled workday. If you’re a part-time employee, you are not entitled to a replacement holiday when a holiday falls on one of your non-workdays. Part-time employees do not get replacement holidays if the holiday falls on one of their scheduled non-work days. If you’re a part-time employee, you may be given administrative leave if you are unable to work because an office is closed to provide a replacement holiday for other employees. Working on a Holiday A shift that overlaps two days, one of which is a holiday, is considered a holiday throughout. If you have to work on the Federal holiday, you’ll be paid at the holiday premium rate for your scheduled non-overtime hours, whether you’re a full or part-time employee.

